welcome to another rousing edition of
the AMA I am your host Tom bill you and
I'm gonna be answering all of your
long-held questions hopefully some
secret desires as well pouring in we
take your questions alive so don't
hesitate drop them in all right we've
got one that we're gonna start with and
that is from Anessa grev silva yeah all
right this one comes from Facebook hey
Tom thank you so much for the amazing
content when you are feeling attacked
how do you deescalate yourself from
becoming spiteful okay so all of this
comes back for me everything works
backwards from the goal so what's my
goal if my goal is to maintain good
relationships regardless of whether the
person is attacking me or not or if I
want to make sure that I present myself
in a very professional manner and a lot
of this really does depend on in what
circumstance I'm being attacked but one
of the most amazing responses to being
attacked is to not take the bait to not
escalate to their level I find that
people that do that really come across
the best in pretty much any situation
it's pretty rare that I'm gonna escalate
with somebody just because they're
escalating so that sense of identity
that sense of like always doing what
moves me towards my goals that is really
what's going on internally in my head
and then the and this applies by the way
no matter what situation if you want to
de-escalate anything in life you're
gonna do the same thing so first of all
ratcheting up just usually is an
advantageous so I'm going to diaphragm
breathe and so that's gonna get me out
of the sympathetic nervous system
because that's really what's happening
is as they're attacking you you're going
to emotionally rise up to that it's
going to cause your breathing to become
more shallow your heart is gonna start
racing all of the things that put you
into the sympathetic nervous system the
fight-or-flight mode you're literally I
mean you're talking about being attacked
so you're ratcheting up to mount a
counter-offensive so you want to
de-escalate that by getting into the
parasympathetic nervous system which the
fastest way to do that is diaphragm
breathing so I actually imagine and I
don't know why I imagine this but this
is
actly what it feels like to me that I'm
pushing the emotion down and I know
people tell you not to do this but I
find this really really works me
actually release the emotion I'm not
burying it I'm releasing it so I'm
pushing it down and then I breathe
through my diaphragm line I just I
literally just did that and I can
actually feel myself from a single
breath it's so weird
from a single breath I can feel myself a
single diaphragm breath I can feel
myself relaxed more like literally I can
even feel it in my voice as like I'm
getting more calm simply from thinking
about getting calm so and also a lot of
times you'll feel if somebody is coming
after you're gonna feel tension rising
in your body
I find that releasing things through my
physicality is one of the most potent
and powerful ways to really get out of
that mode so I'm gonna take that deep
diaphragm breath I'm like if you imagine
almost puching your stomach out that's
what I'm doing to really get that breath
to go down low out of my diaphragm and I
tend to breathe in through my nose and
out through my mouth so and then I just
release it and that works and so you
combine that identity not wanting to be
the [__] that's ratcheting up
that's just rising to that and responds
emotionally to everything so that's very
much my identity and then the
physicality of releasing tension in my
shoulders relaxing my face diaphragm
breathing all of those things are going
to allow me to de-escalate so no matter
what situation you're in if you find the
de-escalating is the appropriate
response that is exactly what you do all
right next question is from lester
Bisaya this is from facebook you once
said children born with great privilege
are going to have a harder time
achieving things in life due to their
lack of motivation how do you think
conscientious parents strike a balance
in protecting or nurturing their kids
while instilling them with a healthy
mindset for success in life okay so
first and foremost I want to say that I
am probably the wrong person to answer
this question because I don't have
children and I don't have children
precisely because of this question
because I think that it is a next to
impossible balance of strike I think it
was Plato or
one of the two that said the only
impossible job is raising children and
that really really resonates with me but
here's my best guess and parents hey
drop into the comments let me know if
you think I'm crazy which I'm very open
to so my best guess looks like this
there are certain kinds of suffering
that are gonna be very advantageous for
your kids and certain kinds of suffering
that are not so bullying is the one that
freaks me out so if my kids were being
bullied I would immediately go into that
situation and try to figure it it out
find a way to either get them out of
that situation stop the bullying
whatever but you've got to be able to
accurately identify the difference
between kids just being dicks which they
usually are saying harsh and hurtful
things and bullying and failing to
realize the difference between those two
could be disastrous because I think kids
need to hear the hard truth from other
kids
I think if kids are doing something
stupid it's good that other kids push
back tell them to knock it off calm on
their [__] but that's very different
from someone systematically targeting
somebody for being different for being
small for being perceived as weak like
whatever it is and going after them in a
relentless way over and over and over
especially if they're turning into like
little pack animals and coming after
them so part of what I would say is
bullying is if it's based on something
that is intrinsic to that child that
already is gonna be a problem so it's
not like hey the kid is actually acting
like a [__] then people should like
look there have been times in my life
where I did things I'm sure that we're
just beyond embarrassing and if I saw
happening now I'd be mortified that I
did that and so it's good that people
then shut you down pointed out but at
the same time if somebody's making you
feel unsafe if they're picking on you
for being a boy or being a girl or being
tall or being short or having pimples or
like whatever the case may be something
that just not a lot you can do about
that then that definitely to me is is
spilling into bullying so recognizing
that and understanding one of those is
useful the other is not making sure that
your kids are doing the hard things so
my parents always used to make me do
manual labor I actually think that was
good I hated it at the time but it
really did force me to learn how to push
through things like that it also made me
realize I did not want to do manual
labor for the rest of my life
which actually did make me get an
education which is one thing that my dad
told me he was like hey I'd do this to
make sure that you'll get an education
now my thinking around education is very
much changed so I don't necessarily
think everybody needs a formal education
but I do think everybody needs to be
educated so you need to learn the [__]
out of something so yeah being able to
identify the things that are actually
going to toughen somebody up that
they're going to make them stronger I
think that's good when they're like if
they're playing a sport or something
like that Angela Duckworth has some
pretty awesome rules around that you can
read more about them in the book grit
and she said if one of her children does
something say they want to play baseball
and halfway through the season they want
to quit she will not let them quit she
said you have to stick out the season so
I love that teaching them grit and
discipline by saying hey you were the
one that wanted to start this in the
first place you're gonna see it through
but she doesn't make them play again the
next year so if they realize that they
didn't like it she's gonna let them out
of it doing homework things like that
words it may be boring it may be
difficult you know teaching them to get
through that and then giving them the
frame of reference about a growth
mindset versus a fixed mindset and I
think that that's really critical and I
won't go down that rabbit hole right now
if you don't know about a growth mindset
essentially watch any other piece of
content that I've ever put out because I
address that or read the book mindset by
Carol Dweck all right next question and
this is from our boys sim land on
Facebook Tom what's your meta belief the
belief above all beliefs well I suppose
that gets into first of all if you
haven't already go to impact Theory calm
down load the 25 point belief system
that I created those are my my meta
beliefs but the one that really sets the
top everything is you can do anything
you set your mind to without limitation
so that is to me the the sort of
ultimate one now if you're ready for the
advanced class the thing that follows
that up is that's a lie but it's an
empowering lie and we do them believe
that which moves us towards our goals so
if you take those two in conjunction if
you let me be a little cheeky and give
two answers those two things put
together really form the absolute
foundation of my belief system all right
next up is from Steve trout
what do you suggest for someone who's
not very introspective a lot of what you
do is based on awareness of self but
what if you lack that awareness
obviously you can build it but how would
you go about building it personally okay
so first of all yes the answer is built
it I think that you do need to build
self-awareness I think if you can't be
introspective and figure out what's
going on what you're going through then
you're really going to be in trouble so
the key is to develop that
self-awareness to develop it it looks
like this you have emotions everyone has
emotion so the trick is when you have an
emotion to be able to identify I'm
having this emotion to identify what the
emotion is to backtrack and do what is
causing that emotion and then from there
you can decide what to do with that
emotion and if you want to leverage that
emotion or you want to shrink the time
that you feel that emotion if you want
to get closer to identifying that you're
having the emotion very right at the
beginning of that then all of that comes
from practicing that but the ultimate
process is exactly that I'm having an
emotion what is the emotion what's the
cause of the emotion and then what do I
want to do about it so that's the four
part process to developing self
awareness all right next question is
from Jenny
Sealand Jenny's feel and how much time
do you spend on meditation versus think
it Asian I want to tell you that it's
about 50/50 but the truth is it's
probably closer to 70/30 in favor of
think it Asian I find that I do more
meditation and more think it a Shinto
pending on what's going on in my life so
if I'm really stressed out if I'm
feeling a lot of anxiety then I'm gonna
be doing a lot more meditating and if on
the other hand I'm not feeling stressed
or anxious then I'm gonna edge up more
towards think it Asian and to be quite
honest the only real meditation that I'm
doing at that point is to get into an
alpha wave state so that I can get the
most out of my think it Asian so that's
the split that I normally Iran for me
think it Asian is just it's way more
usable if I'm in a positive frame of
mind already okay question from hg 51
this comes from YouTube if no questions
are off-limits Tom have you ever gotten
in a fight I assume and by the way no
questions are off-limits and I
we won't feed me the question if it's
too ridiculous or I'll just choose to
skip it if something comes up but I
don't mind this at all and my answer is
if if you mean a verbal altercation I've
been in many many many many you
certainly don't get to a high level of
business without and fight probably
isn't the right word but without being
in many very intense debates that feel
like they're edging up to a fight I've
been in precious few physical
altercations in my life and I'm a they
happened when I was younger and when I
was younger I was an unimaginable wuss I
wanted to avoid the fight at all costs I
don't consider myself by nature a tough
person in any way shape or form any
toughness that I have now I've had to
develop and face some really gnarly
weaknesses in myself and my personality
which none of them make me proud of Who
I am
certainly by nature so I've had to
develop all of that and and still like
man when I see people that they just
seemed totally unfazed by fighting that
would not be me like a phase or a fight
would be something that I would not
enter into lightly I'll give you one
story that happened I was a grown-ass
adult in fact I'd already found a quest
and it was the fact that I had found a
quest that made me go I need to back the
[__] out of this because I'm starting to
act like an idiot and if somebody were
filming this I'd be really really
embarrassed and I could just read the
headline founder of quest nutrition gets
in fight at the gym which is exactly
where it happened so this was super
weird I'm gonna be a little indulgent
here and hopefully chase will pull me
back if I get too indulgent but it went
like this let me have a drink here as
you guys know I get up really early so I
was in the gym I was in the gym this was
at a time when I worked out at a public
gym and I'm in the gym like I think they
opened at 5:00 a.m. and I was literally
standing outside the door when they
opened so I'm in the gym of five there
was like me and lit me and one other guy
like there might have been one or two
other people by the time the the
altercation happened but it's me and him
there's so much equipment I'm at this
one station I'm doing tricep pull downs
and if you guys know a cable car
of a machine it usually has like you'll
have a free-standing version for doing
the pull downs and then you'd have that
same thing again on the inside and then
you'd have it replicated again on the
other side of the cable cross and then
in this particular gym they had double
cable cross so on the other side of that
was another version that you could do
pull downs then another version and so
there were 1 2 3 4 5 5 stations to do
this exact exercise 5 I'm at the
outermost so that I don't take up the
cable cross so if somebody wants to do a
cable crossover they can I start doing
my pull downs this is a large commercial
gym there are 2 maybe 3 or 4 people in
the entire gym that is not an
exaggeration and I'm doing my cable
cross or my pull downs I have my
headphones on this guy comes up and goes
do you mind if I work in and at first I
honestly thought he was joking and so I
look around and I'm like you know very
funny take my headphones out oh that's
really funny he's like no no no I'm
serious kind of work in and I was like
do you mind like maybe just using one of
the other ones and and he was like no I
really want to use this one and I
honestly thought this guy was [__]
with me I was like I am on candid camera
right now there is no way when there are
five of the exact same thing that this
guy wants to work in on the one that I'm
working on so anyway to make a long
story short it [__] escalated and it
gets to the point where I'm literally
like if you want to fight let's fight
and that was so stupid and I caught
myself in the middle of that going wow
this is really embarrassing I am acting
like a child I cannot believe I'm doing
this so yeah at that point I stopped and
went about my workout and in the end we
both looked at each other more like that
was really [__] ridiculous I can't
believe we were both escalating like
children so yeah but it didn't go to
fisticuffs I'm very grateful for it but
the whole thing was so patently absurd
to me I couldn't allow myself to back
down so that was one of those where you
have two competing value systems one I
don't want to be a [__] who acts
like a child and then on the other hand
I don't want to back down when
somebody's doing something that I think
is patently stupid so I was sketching
out for a minute like
a thermostat that turns on and off the
same temperature so finally I realized
acting like an adult in this moment is
probably better than approving a
willingness to stand up for myself so I
moved to a different machine and just
continued with my workout but yeah that
was both embarrassing and the most
recent time that I was almost in a fight
alright next question is from Justin
bonaga Justin bonaga my question is
related to the Think and Grow Rich book
it said that your mind needs to be
dominated by positive thoughts because
it will attract positivity in your life
but what if I'm being driven by
something dark like hate what's your
opinion here all right I'm all about the
80/20 rule so when 80% of your time in
the light in the beauty in gratitude in
the things that you love about your life
and the beautiful things you're trying
to make come true in your life but then
spend 20% of your time with a chip on
your shoulder totally dissatisfied with
where you are tapping into the anger the
rage the hate you just have to be very
very careful about spending too much
time there because it really does become
corrosive it will eat away at you but I
think that humans are meant to play in
both I think that the darkness serves
you in very acute moments meaning very
finite in their time you spend very
little time there but when you and I've
talked a lot about this they did a study
where if you wanted to test how long
somebody could endure pain they'd have
them submerge their arm in like an ice
bucket they would clock the time and
then if they wanted to push somebody
beyond that they would say okay now you
can express anger rage and go crazy and
people could say I think it was 30%
longer they could endure the pain so
very much the anger the hatred the rage
all of that will serve you in very acute
moments so if you think about us as
evolutionary creatures that we've got to
this point through a study process of
evolution anger rage all of that must
have conferred some advantage and I
think that's the advantage it gives you
ability to endure more pain so I think
attacking hard things is a great way to
go about it and it's even something they
talked about in cross-country when
you're running and you're super fatigued
and you're about to come up against a
hill what do you do you attack it like
you get intense
you fire yourself up you go for it so
set another way literally hate that Hill
to death and go up that hill all right
so that's my thought
8020 all right question from Tess Linden
this one is from Facebook once I get on
a roll and momentum is building it's so
easy to keep going and delve deep into
my work but on those days when I get
really low I lose the momentum and this
can take me this can make me lose a week
out of my work got any tips for pushing
yourself once you hit those low moods
yes so first of all energy creation has
a physical component so I think that
addressing that physical component is
always a very good idea
so generating energy in your life when
you're feeling low if you don't then
have the physical reserves is going to
be a real problem so this is a big part
of the reason why I exercise and eat
right so that from an ATP standpoint the
energy source of the body that I do have
that energy created and it's just an
emotional low that I'm dealing with so
if it's just an emotional load that I'm
dealing with then I'm a lot of times I'm
gonna focus on the result that I'm
trying to get or just identity write an
evaluation system so I evaluate myself
every three hours to see if I've been as
productive as I want to be and then if
I'm not that triggers my identity to hey
wait a second like I don't tolerate that
for myself I have high [__] standards
come on let's go and triggering that
identity gets me going
also there's ways to access it from a
physicality get up stand up move around
jump around do whatever you need to do
to like get the blood flowing get pumped
and then third I think about the results
so like for instance the gym I have low
energy a lot in the gym emotionally
because I don't enjoy the gym and so in
those moments where I'm thinking about
what I actually have to do and my
problem with the gym isn't the pain my
problem with the gym is the time I
resent the time so because I resent the
time a lot I find myself getting a
little bit deflated in the gym sometimes
and when that happens and I've got to
think about the result that I'm trying
to get I'm doing this because I want to
be able to generate ATP I'm doing this
because I want to look good naked I'm
doing this because I want to be strong
right all the things that you want to do
you start thinking about those end
results and that then gets me through
okay next question is from we're
scrolling like a twitchy person here all
right there we go this one's from Daniel
bro on Facebook after the Louis house
interview I have been looking at myself
and what masques I wear what ways have
you found yourself wearing masks and how
have you changed it in the moment okay
so first of all if you haven't watched
the episode that we did with Lou's house
check that out it was this week or last
week very recently this week last week
okay so this one was Leila Jonah so
check it out Luis brought the goods
amazing
he wrote a new book called the mask of
masculinity and he talks a lot about the
different masks that people wear I think
he has a really really unique
perspective so here I will say I don't
necessarily internalize everything that
Luis said so that's actually an
important reason to watch the interview
is because I think that you guys need to
get varying opinions and really
synthesize your own so Lisa Lisa Lewis's
thesis is that we all wear these masks
and that these masks stop us from being
our true and authentic self and by the
way if that is what's happening to you
then definitively he's right on the
money and I think finding a path to
being true and authentic to yourselves
is absolutely critical I find the way he
defines masks though is like I think of
as putting myself in that zone so
aggression is one of the masks that he
talks about and I have found that I've
had to cultivate that in myself that I
don't have that naturally but the way
that I am naturally makes me feel weak
made me feel like as being taken
advantage of was not helping me in
business and because my meta belief
going back to one of the earliest
questions my meta belief is to do and
believe that which moves me towards my
goals I realize I had to cultivate that
and I had to learn to be aggressive but
fascinating how this is all sort of
coming together in the earlier story I
was talking about the last time I was
almost in a fight that was me literally
having these two conflicting values or
masks if you will where I wanted to be
dominant and aggressive but then also
realized I wanted to be an adult who's
in control of his emotions and so these
two things neither of which I would say
is necessarily my natural state were
coming into conflict and I had
that moment I had to choose like in what
way do I want to act right now and so
for me it was letting go of in Lewis's
words the aggression mask and leaning on
my identity as a very rational calm
adult who's in control of his emotions
and not the other way around so go back
for a second to the question so and how
have you changed at the moment yeah so
it really comes down to identifying what
you're doing if you're and Lewis talks
about in the the interview that there
are times where the mask can help you
and so you need to really begin to
differentiate between when it is going
to help you and when it's hurting you
and if it's hurting you to drop it like
I'm not afraid to be super vulnerable
and so that might be part of why I see
them the notion of a mask a little bit
differently if you'd asked me that
question maybe ten years ago where I
really struggled with that didn't want
to be vulnerable and would have been
really tense to put my real self out
there because I thought that people were
gonna judge me or whatever
it would have been very very different
but at some point you get good enough at
things that you know it doesn't matter
what people think about me what what
matters is my ability to execute and so
knowing that I can execute against the
things that I want to do has really
allowed me to be vulnerable to be myself
to not posture not try to pretend so
yeah that's how I address in the moment
all right next question is from
Elizabeth Sullivan this is from Facebook
hi Tom what is a good place to start
with making a physical product should I
seek an invention company or just go
straight to a manufacturer and pitch the
product it's interesting so if you
already have so you can only go to the
manufacturer if you already have the
product so let's start with that and if
you already have the product I don't
know why you'd need to go to an
invention house so some of this is
really a question about how do you get
to having a product so start with what's
the problem that you want to solve do
you have a unique inside that's going to
allow you to make that product even just
conceptually if yes you have it
conceptually but you don't know how to
get a prototype then working with a
prototype house would be amazing and if
that's what you mean by an invention
company
my then yes definitively go to the
prototyping house with your idea with
your schematics get them to mock it up
to create it and then if you are talking
about going to a co manufacturer to
pitch your product this really gets into
IP and who's gonna own the IP and
depending on who's working with you how
they're being compensated and all that
you can get yourself in trouble going to
a manufacturer a lot of times when you
go to the manufacturer to have them help
you develop the prototype they're gonna
have a lot of this depends on what it is
but they may want ownership if it's a
recipe or something like that they may
make that their proprietary recipe which
is a disaster you don't want to be in
that situation you want to make sure
that you own the intellectual property
so I would as much as I could either do
it myself or hire somebody and what's
called a work-for-hire perspective so
that you own it at the end and you can
write that directly into the contract
although most states in the US are gonna
recognize work for hire if you're paying
somebody a salary to develop something
for you usually even without a contract
that's going to be recognized as yours
but it can get tricky so man the more
you can just lay things out on paper
upfront the better but yeah so that's
ultimately you need a prototype having
somebody that can help you make that
prototype is critical and then because
I'm not a big fan of taking in
investments up front if you can make it
yourself even if it's rough that's
better than having to you know raise
capital and go straight to having
somebody do it and a high-end fashion
cobble it together do it yourself the
guy that I'm interviewing today by the
way a guy named Taylor Wilson super
interested in this kid created nuclear
fusion nuclear fusion at the age of 14
by cobbling pieces together
that's [__] insanity so anyway if you
can build a nuclear reactor by begging
borrowing and buying at very very low
cost scrounging around in junkyards and
all that to create a nuclear reactor
then you can probably cobble just about
anything together so yeah that is where
I would start if you can alright this
next question is from Kevin Corona on
Facebook
hi Tom I plan on building a
self-sustainable community very
interesting right now the hard part is
bringing people together I have the
right group is it hard to bring them
together we have the right group but we
are in different states okay here we go
but we're in different states and
haven't been able to come together to
buy land what do you suggest is the best
way to bring people physically together
I'm with you now with common ground well
so the the tricky part is actually how
to get the right group so I'd actually
be interested to see how you got them
together but my advice is these days
with the internet I would put together I
probably just start with a really simple
Facebook group I'd make sure that I was
putting out the kind of content that let
people know who I was
and then I would start attracting
like-minded people I would try to have
physical meetups so that we actually
come together physically so that I don't
think there's any way around proximity
so you need to spend time with people
you need to look them in the eye so I
don't yeah I don't think you can get
around that so do that spend time with
them together on a non permanent basis
really see who you gel and jive with and
then you don't need to be together to
get the funds to actually go and buy the
land but I would definitely have spent
time then raise the money and then go
out and buy the property I mean Jesus
these days you could do a Kickstarter
campaign so yeah that's what I would do
meet them online first meet them
physically in a non permanent fashion so
I wouldn't like buy the land without
having met with them get to know them
very very well make sure they really are
the right people that you're looking for
raise the funds if you don't already
have them using a Kickstarter campaign
or something like that to raise money
from the people that would want to come
be a part of it and then go out and
execute all right next question is from
I have no idea how this is supposed to
be said
Muzzin kicked it's something like that
Tom do you play games not just video
games are there any games you play that
have made an impact for you from a game
designer who loves your content okay so
I only play board games if that's like
what we're talking about other than
video games
but only at Christmas so if I'm together
with family I play it it's a lot of fun
I won't say that any of them have left
an impact on me but when I play it play
to win and I try to practice some skill
technique whatever so if it's like
charades or something like that I don't
necessarily love getting up in front of
people so god the irony of ironies of
the way that I live my life now but I I
try to use that as an opportunity to
practice so I go up I want to kill it I
want to force myself to think fast so I
use this practice the only game I will
say that's really had an impact on me is
destiny is the game that I play but I'll
say that first-person shooters in
general probably all have a degree of
this where you can literally just today
I was using this as an off-camera
example if you want to know this is very
real to me I use first-person shooters
as a way to practice a lot of how to
deal with stress how to get out of this
sympathetic nervous system and into the
parasympathetic nervous system it's a
great way to artificially create high
stakes to trigger a physiological
response and then practice getting out
of it so man I've even got my wife
playing it I think it's a really really
good strategy for practicing that so
yeah that's that one okay next question
while twitchy scrolling man here finds
this one I'm gonna take a drink okay
this question is from Carla Ayala this
is on Facebook as you know females have
a harder time to rise to a position of
power how can a woman strategically move
into a position of power when there are
men who do not want her there keeping in
mind that she is already so [__] good
that she cannot be ignored thanks Tom
okay so trying to take away the real
answer and I'm not going to let you the
fact is if you really are so good that
you can't be ignored you won't be
ignored so it may be harder you may have
to work twice as hard but that's part of
the cat be ignored part so yeah I'm not
saying that you don't have to put in the
extra effort I'm just saying that you
actually are putting in that effort
you're being more strategic you're
figuring out how to get those guys what
they want and need so that they want to
champion you and help you rise so I'll
totally agree it's it's much harder for
women but now I will say that that just
means that to get so good that you can't
be ignored you have to work hard
that's the truth go watch the episode
that we did with Sara Raab O'Hagan she
talks about this and she said I never
thought of myself as the best female
executive I just saw myself as the best
executive and she said maybe that's the
reason that I said that the way I
thought about myself the way that I just
it didn't even occur to me that people
were gonna try and hold me back I just
focus on getting [__] great I focused
on adding value to the company I focused
on knowing no matter who I have to go
around under overthrew if I'm adding
value to the company in the form of
tangible dollars and cents boys and
girls no one's gonna get rid of me
especially not if I do it in a way
that's positive I bring a positive
energy
watch her episode she's amazing she
addresses that directly and at the end
of the day it all came down to make more
money for the company bring in sales
period nobody man you've got to be a
real jerk for people to get rid of you
if you're bringing a tremendous amount
of tangible tangible measurable
bottom-line value to a company period so
as god I forget the guy that wrote this
book but there's a book out there I've
actually interviewed him that's terrible
that I'm forgetting his name but he
wrote a book called the no [__] rule
so if you're not an [__] and you're
delivering bottom line results of the
company you will rise plain and simple
so but watch her episode Sara rabe
O'Hagan watch her episode four specific
examples of some of the things that she
did to get around people it's pretty
impressive okay question from West night
Facebook what is the single best
decision you have made this week and
what has been its ripple effect I've
started refining my important things
list so my important things list is
getting really long and really robust
and it's very exciting but that also
diminishes its usability so I've started
doing today so I've got my important
things list and then I've got like here
are the things absolutely these like
don't go to bed until these get done
today and so that's been really great
it's just helped me get to another level
of efficiency and deadly efficiency is
what I'm all about
so yeah I've liked that it's been a cool
okay this question is from Ruth - hey
des hello Tom what are you
what was your experience with the
education system did you ever say that
you would not amount to much my
experience with the education system I
saw the the education system through a
child's eyes and what I mean by that is
I didn't really I thought the problem
was that people were judging me and they
were giving me grades and like how is
this ever really gonna help me in life
and all of the things that I think kids
say versus really recognizing the
problems with the education system which
which I'll get into in a minute but so
that's how I saw it since that was your
question actually that's technically not
your question question was what was my
experience so my experience was actually
good it was positive I had great friends
in high school I was very effective at
cheating so with very little work I
managed to get very good grades as high
school get to college in a minute so I
cheated my way through high school I had
amazing friends I got a practice my
stand-up comedy so which helped me
develop my verbal abilities my
after-school activities Speech and
Debate have helped me immeasurably in
life so I actually had I'll say a very
positive experience now the one thing
about it was I was very judgmental about
school and I thought that the way that
they taught was stupid I was right but
for the wrong reason so I think now if
you look at what people are talking
about the education system they're
making way more enlightened arguments
and I was making which is they're saying
one size fits all doesn't make sense I
think that makes a lot of sense it
certainly wasn't what I was decrying
when I was in high school but I think
that makes a lot of sense I think
finding a way to focus on problem
solving is probably the biggest thing so
we teach essentially rote memorization
so here are the facts and figures
memorize those and then the third thing
I'll say is being a teacher is one of
the most time-consuming endeavors ever
we pay them virtually nothing so it
doesn't attract the best the brightest
that doesn't mean that there aren't
amazing amazing amazing teachers out
there who touch people's lives and their
lives are immeasurably better because of
it and I had some early encouragement
from teachers I'm eternally grateful for
so no question no question I had amazing
teachers along the way but I will say
that they're in the minority
the majority of teachers it's just
people that are really really good at
stuff and they know they can monetize it
and money makes your life easier it just
does and so people tend to go towards
jobs that pay more money and so because
teaching doesn't pay well and it doesn't
necessarily reward teachers for being
innovative for really engaging you just
get an education system that was
designed to make factory workers and not
high-level entrepreneurs who are problem
solvers and being creative so those are
all my things since I said I would
address college when I went to college I
decided to take it very very seriously
and to learn and study since it was all
in service of something that I actually
want to be good at I think that they
made a decent attempt the problem is I
think that certainly myself I learn best
by doing and so there was probably still
a little bit too much Theory class all
that and not enough just hard core get
out there and do it embarrass yourself
fail suck grow and get better and so I
think doing is a lot more important than
abstract sitting in a classroom
memorizing facts so there you have it
all right next question is from Sarah na
this is on Facebook how do you handle
fear from doing something you know
doesn't deserve fear how do you handle
doesn't deserve here the only way I know
how to answer this question is to say
that whatever you're doing is triggering
an anxiety response and that the anxiety
response doesn't make a lot of sense so
I address anxiety from a physiological
perspective and that's really been the
biggest boon that I've gotten so one of
the ways that I've dealt with anxiety is
playing first-person shooters which
triggers that fight-or-flight response
to me and so I teach myself how to
deescalate the other is meditating
meditation has been a huge help a huge
oak in fact I very very recently was in
a very very stressful meeting and I
found my anxiety was [__] off the
charts and so my heart is racing and I
just thought these are the moments I've
been practicing for this my entire life
so I'll walk you through exactly what I
did I reminded myself all of life is
practice it's not performance okay so
that was the escalation number one even
if I [__] this up and embarrass myself
and everybody knows that I'm super
anxious it doesn't really matter in the
grand scheme of things
what matters is am I able to perform
over the long run so
that helped me calm down a little bit
and then I was just like diaphragm
breathe so relax relax my shoulders
don't hold tension sitting really
comfortable what they call a power pose
so don't collapse into myself like
broaden my shoulders out and breathe
from my diaphragm so nice low diaphragm
breathing in through the nose out to the
mouth and I did that probably four or
five times literally right there in the
meeting nobody noticed that was very
thankful for that but I thought if I
don't do that I won't perform at my best
so I did that and regardless of whether
people were gonna notice or not and
really matter to me
and so I de-escalated even I am still
shocked at how well meditative breathing
helps so man my recommendation if you
take nothing away from today take this
learn to meditate learn to breathe learn
to get out of the sympathetic nervous
system into the parasympathetic nervous
system it will serve you well in a
thousand different arenas and then as
like your bonus point all of life is but
practice it is never a performance so
whether you mess it up in that moment
that day whatever even if it's some huge
meeting and everything is riding on it
if you just remember that look there it
is the rarest of rare rare rare
opportunity opportunities that truly
only come once and that if you're really
crushing it that you couldn't even if
that opportunity only comes once that
you couldn't find another path even if
it's a little bit harder to go and
execute that value to people so don't
over invest in any one moment you can
create more opportunities in your life
all right question is from Luca Mzee
when faced with a fearful thought
pattern health anxiety how do you go
about rewiring your brains response in
order to go the positive route instead
literally exactly what I just described
to you guys and then also the other part
is dealing with things like automatic
negative thoughts which is a part of the
rewiring pattern so we all have these
automatic negative thoughts it is an
inevitable part of being a human but you
can make them the trigger for a habit
loop to think something positive so my
whole thing is obsess on how right
things are going to go so as your
anxiety is triggering rather than saying
to yourself oh my god
like imagine if I can't get this under
control and then people can hear that
like I'm anxious and oh god and now it
just spirals and
this is an important meeting and if I
don't get this right like that's gonna
make you more [__] anxious so that's
not gonna help anybody so what I try to
do is obsess over how things are gonna
go right oh man I'm getting anxious so
I'm gonna die from breathe it's kind of
work immediately this is gonna be so
amazing and I can feel myself getting
more calm even if I don't feel myself
getting more calm I'm gonna say wow I
can actually feel myself getting more
calm oh that's awesome my heart rate is
slowing down and this is just practice
anyway and it doesn't really matter if I
mess this up but you know what I'm not
going to I'm gonna nail this it's gonna
be amazing I'm gonna think of all the
things that I want to say I'm gonna
deliver it and I find that thinking
obsessively about how all the things are
gonna go right it just crowds out the
negative thoughts and as you obsess over
things going right you're gonna find it
from a physiological perspective that
the anxiety begins to lower begins to
diminish and it's replaced with positive
thoughts anxiety literally is born of
obsessively over time thinking about how
things might go wrong so you don't like
all the sudden have anxiety it may start
very very early so you may not even
remember a time when you didn't have it
but it is not instantaneous so it starts
small it starts with being nervous and
then really nervous and then anxious and
then really anxious but only about
specific things and then it becomes
generalized anxiety disorder and you
have I remember there was a time in my
life where I used to work and I had this
there was a parking garage and every day
I would turn right and one day for
whatever reason I just thought why don't
I ever turn left and the thought of
turning left gave me [__] anxiety the
thought of turning left gave me anxiety
in a parking garage and I was like that
is so absurd like actually that was when
it really started to scare me I thought
whoa like this is seeping into some
seriously terrifying parts of my life
and so then I started forcing myself to
turn left to turn left to turn left to
realize nothing bad I was like this is
why I can generalise the anxiety like
what is happening so you start turning
left you start thinking about the way
things are gonna go right you start
learning how to breathe you start
meditating you start de-escalating you
start using automatic negative thoughts
as a trigger to obsessively think about
things going right it isn't one thing
it's a whole bunch of other things and
if when you said health anxiety you
literally mean like you're almost
hypochondriac and you think that
everything you have is cancer which by
the way is something that I used to
think all the time
always dying of cancer and I'll give you
an example there was one day I showed up
to work and I could just feel something
in the back of my throat and it was like
right like right where I could touch it
with my tongue but it was really
starting to be the back of my throat so
I thought what is that and it was a lump
and of course lumps mean your stage for
dying of cancer and then I'm gonna go to
the doctor and they're gonna say you
literally have six hours to live so call
your wife right now I mean this
literally what I was imagining and do
you know what it was it was a clogged
saliva gland at the back of my throat
and the doctor was like wow that's a
super weird place to have a saliva gland
a and B for it to get clogged that's
really weird and I had to have like a
biopsy and it was like this whole
terrifying four-day ordeal of my life
and but at the end of the day it was a
[__] saliva gland that somehow got
misplaced and then clogged so there
there there are so many weird things
that it could be that to jump
immediately to cancer is ridiculous so I
just remind myself there's a thousand
and one things that it could be so I'm
just gonna assume it's one of the benign
and easier ones to deal with and even if
it is [__] cancer I'm gonna deal with
that I'm going to overcome it like you
just obsessively think about how things
are gonna go right and that has helped
me tremendously alright question from
the most interest I think it's hey Seuss
but the most interesting spelling I've
ever seen hey soos Revis how do you deal
with a boss that you can't talk to
openly especially at times when she acts
like a toddler never satisfied with
anything to do there are specific
moments they don't like and they lose
their cool how would I handle the
situation okay so let's let's predict
how tom is gonna answer this question
first of all in fact right now
[__] I want you guys to put
into the comments what am I about to say
because if you don't know this answer by
now I'm gonna chew through my own eyes
so what am I gonna put write it right
now you watching the feed I want to see
if people are actually writing this
right right right right right right if
you're listening to this later in a
podcast I want you to say out loud don't
just think in your head because then you
could like be having two things you
think I'm gonna say say out loud what do
you think I'm about to say
alright everybody have their answer
locked in Shah's do you have your
sir locked in all right the answer is
it's all your fault it's all your fault
so here's what I mean by that
especially at time she acts like a
toddler okay now maybe she really does
and maybe your boss is a total
psychopath
but you've got to be thinking like what
am i doing to trigger her and make her
acting like make her act like a toddler
or when she's acting like a toddler why
can't I get her back into immediate
adult mode or what am i doing
working for somebody who's so irrational
that they act like a toddler that's what
this is I'm externalizing how I think
about myself so this is exactly what I'd
be thinking I'm not gonna get pissed or
be like I can't believe she's a toddler
I'm going to accept and acknowledge the
reality of this situation is this is
where that person is so now what am I
gonna do so first it just starts with
you've got to take responsibility now I
get it you're asking me for what like
the actual steps are so full respect
you're ready for that answer so now
here's what I do so I look at myself
first what am i doing second I'm really
gonna assess the situation is this how
much time and energy would it take me to
get good at dealing with this person if
the answer is too much and I don't love
my job or whatever I'm going to leave so
I'm going to find another job I'm gonna
find my dream job somebody where people
aren't Psychopaths but let's say that I
think you know what this is actually
worth my time and energy I love what
we're doing I love the mission of the
company I really want to get around this
I'm going to identify what is triggering
them what's making them act like a
toddler almost certainly it is
insecurity okay so I know the people are
what they call promoted to their level
of incompetence and what that means is
you're really good at your job here so
they promote you to hear you're really
good at your job there so they promote
you to here and you ultimately stall out
at the place you're not good anymore so
you were good at all those other things
but now finally you get to the point
where you just don't shine at it so okay
I get it I accept it actually I have
empathy for that so I'm gonna meet this
person with empathy they're insecure
about something and chances are I'm
triggering that insecurity so what is it
that I'm doing that's making them
insecure how can I bring them in on this
how can I help them win with whatever
idea or whatever it is that I'm doing or
hey can if they're you're frustrated
that they're never satisfied with what
you do ask them ahead of time what does
success look like lay that out for me so
that you know exactly what you're aiming
for because maybe they're not clear and
on
I'm gonna own that maybe it really isn't
that good and so I'll say what are we
trying to get out of this I want to make
sure that I really crush it and then
when I go in I'm gonna be totally
defenseless so even if they're acting
like a psychopath toddler and I realize
okay [__] I wasn't able to not trigger
their insecurity at this points now
they're reacting to my work okay but now
I actually want to know so maybe their
insecurity is just lowering their
defenses and now they're gonna lash out
on something real because normally
that's what people do they go for your
real weakness so now she's attacking
something that probably is real and
maybe 99 things about my work are
awesome and they're triggering their
insecurities so I'm only gonna hear
about the one thing that sucks
but I want to know about that one thing
that sucks so now I'm gonna lower my
defenses despite the fact they're acting
like a toddler I'm gonna look at the one
thing that they really hone in on and
I'm gonna ask is that real I'm gonna
separate the message from the messenger
then I'm gonna say well maybe that
really is something 9 get better at and
now I am so stoked this by the way is
actually how I think I'm so stoked that
this person is freaking out acting like
a toddler right now because that's
causing them to help me shore up my game
and to get even better so I'm super
super excited about the fact that they
pointed out the one thing that I'm doing
wrong thank you thank you thank you I'm
so grateful for that and then I'm
literally gonna thank them for pointing
that out and I'm gonna you know address
it and try to do better so that's how I
would deal with somebody because
ultimately I accept that I'm the one
that wasn't able to either stop them
from acting like a toddler or help them
out of that with empathy with compassion
and strategy quite frankly okay next
question is from Mark Babic hi Tom just
heard your comment on fighting I was
wimped just like you wanted to avoid it
all cost do you find this was helpful in
developing and negotiating skills I
always found myself trying to find a way
to avoid fighting at any cost you know
it's funny actually yes so when I was
growing up I found that I could talk my
way out of any fight and so I did that
with self-deprecating humor then when I
went to college I stopped using
self-deprecating humor altogether and
found that that actually did rob me of
that ability and it's really fascinating
and I'm not saying that either one is
better than the other if like it doesn't
make you feel weird
to always have to default to making fun
of yourself to get out of a situation or
to accept that you're you know not gonna
be able to use like dominance to back
somebody else down to get out of a
situation like if you're okay with that
man I don't think there's anything wrong
with that if you're legitimately okay
with that and to be honest like in high
school it didn't bother me I thought it
was I was totally okay with it and it
was just as my identity change and I
wanted to take myself more seriously
that I really began to hold myself to a
different standard to change my identity
that it then became important to not do
that and to stand up for myself so it's
fascinating I don't think one identity
is right or wrong you just have to
acknowledge what your identity is and
then build your life around that so yeah
I actually think it was easier to talk
my way out of things I won't say
negotiate because I find in negotiations
empathy compassion is very useful
standing up for yourself at times is
very useful knowing when to give like so
I would never want to be negotiating
from a position of it's my only option
is to self deprecating it out of it
because sometimes you need to draw a
hard line you need to stand up you need
to stare them down you've got to be
willing to do that and so that that to
me is a very different question but yeah
all right there it is all right next
question is from Emma Parker Tom you
often speak of the matrix in your
language I want to know what was it that
pulled you personally out of the matrix
when was the moment that you realized
did you ever feel crazy no I never felt
crazy the getting out of the matrix I
wish was a binary moment of course it's
not it's a long string of things and it
was I'll give you just a few key touch
points and then I'll say the one that
was probably the most important but it
was things like when I went to college I
wanted to take myself seriously that was
big and that began to reframe things
seeing the matrix gave me the metaphor
the language to think about like what
that looked like that there is no spoon
that you can learn kung-fu
right it was all of that stuff that
everybody Falls the first time when they
tried the big jump right so that like
started lingering in the back of my mind
one of the biggest breakthroughs for me
oh and just getting into business was
another one having mentors that were
farther ahead of me
that showed me
like what hardwork discipline not making
excuses all that stuff look like and the
biggest one was what I built my
self-esteem around and that came that
was just an internal moment of crisis
but if you forced me to say like one
moment that really changed everything it
was that moment to realize that what I
built my self-esteem around mattered and
that building my self-esteem around
being right or being smart or being good
or being talented like none of those
things were very effective it was a very
fragile strategy because I would often
meet people who were smarter than me I
was often wrong people had right answers
way more frequently than I did meaning
as a collective right they asked the
audience like that the crowd is right
way more than you're gonna be right
individually so all of that really was
just made me feel like constantly in
this weakened position and so once I
finally realized okay I need to feel
good about myself I need to be proud of
myself but I can choose what I build my
pride around and that I could switch
that to being the learner so learning
faster than somebody else being willing
to admit that I was wrong faster than
somebody else like all of those things
became the thing that I was really proud
of and so that became just incredibly
incredibly empowering and is the thing
ultimately if you said pick one that I
would say pulled me out of the matrix
but in truth it was years and years of
work reflection reading learning from
people trying stuff and having moments
of real deep pain and the only way out
of that pain is to think in a new way
that that's the truth
okay so next question is from Marie Eve
Gagne how do I stay flexible while
keeping my integrity on certain efforts
eg sleeping in a feeling rundown or
getting sick although I always work out
in the morning okay so this is one of
those things where I'm gonna give you
two very conflicting answers and you
have to live in the friction between the
two if I'm awake I'm either working or
working out if I get sick I'm gonna show
up and [__] play and if I have a
hundred and three degree temperature you
can still count on me to deliver a
world-class interview to lead this
company to do whatever the [__] it takes
to get where I'm going okay that is
shrewe of Who I am
and I've backed that up enough privately
that I have absolutely no concern that
somebody's gonna call me out on that
publicly
none what's so [__] ever so at the
same time if I want to break I'm gonna
[__] take it if I want to take two
weeks off I'm gonna take it if I want to
go on a vacation and do nothing but
drink alcohol and eat bad food I'm going
to do it because I know that I go all
out every [__] day and by the way
when I say that I'm either awake or work
I'm either when I'm awake I'm either
working or working out that's Monday
through Friday and I balance my time way
more reasonably on the weekends and I
feel absolutely no guilt about it
because I'm working so [__] hard
during the week that I know any time in
the weekend I'm more than happy to go
all-in if that's what that weekend needs
I'll do it and because I leave it all in
the field
I'm never hesitant to relax when I need
it and so I think that's really the key
if you know that you're doing your going
to the best of your abilities that you
assess your performance that you hold
yourself to metrics that you believe in
what you're doing you're totally
committed to it you're all-in and you
play that hard every day like you're
just not gonna be afraid to take time
off so I listen to my body so even
though like if I got sick I would still
play through that if I needed to in a
moment where I needed to shine but at
the same time if like the teams on the
teams going and things are working
nobody needs me I'll take a nap during
the middle of the day if I'm sick [__]
yeah like and I would tell my team do
the same go home relax get better I take
the gym off if I'm sick I'm not working
out the [__] out of here
like that doesn't make sense to me so
it's because I'm so confident in how
hard I work I just don't have any guilt
or anxiety about that so you want to get
to that point and then it just becomes a
no-brainer all right next question is
from Marie Mallon ish and hi Tom how do
you keep your mind so quick and lucid as
I stumble through your question you
recall so quickly and are so articulate
do you take supplements what's your
secret
okay so first and foremost no I don't
take supplements I don't [__] around
with them I actually there's a company
they're growing so fast and they offered
me a piece of their company to wrap
their supplement I just couldn't do it
so money is not my highest priority so
that's one of those times where men hey
even when a lot of money is at stake you
can count on me to be true to myself so
I choking to death I don't take
supplements if I found one that worked
though by the way I would take
supplements I'm not like morally opposed
to them I just haven't found any that
work and I only want to get behind
things that I really believe in so the
way that I make sure that my mind is
working fast as I eat right that's one
thing to understand about me do my diet
is so clean and that it is clean it's
not 365 days a year but oh my god it is
so close so I don't cheat like even on
my birthday did it she don't think so so
I probably and when I say cheat I mean
like eat a lot of sugar carbs stuff like
that I probably cheat
five or six times a year so it's really
really rare for me so you literally are
will you eat the cells of your body are
actually made up of the material that
you consume so I think that's a big part
of it so my diet super clean and then I
work out five days a week so I'm in good
physical condition those two things are
like the absolute core of everything
that I do then I make demands of myself
so for instance I when I'm doing this I
sit down in this chair and I remind
myself to answer quickly to be lucid not
to say um too much I do it there's no
question but I try to say it as little
as possible that that's a very conscious
thing that when I catch myself if I'm
about to repeat myself I force my brain
to go into a new direction to add more
value I'm thinking about value creation
I'm trying like when I do amaz I'm
trying to make the information as dense
as humanly possible so that the sort of
insight per minute is very very high so
all of that stuff is making demands
holding yourself to a ridiculously high
standard I don't think people hold
themselves to a high enough standard you
put all that together and then add in 20
25 years of relentless practice and you
can do anything all right three minutes
remaining okay so next question is from
gray on Facebook I I am new to finding I
am new to finding yourself I'm new to
finding myself and have a lot of
ambition to becoming an entrepreneur
when do you think you wanted to be
coming on from
and how did you go about losing before
winning okay so it wouldn't like this
for me I knew I wanted to be a filmmaker
I didn't know how to do it I had failed
embarrassingly in college and I was like
trying to figure out like how am I
really gonna pull this off I felt
totally lost I always wanted to be the
smartest person in the room I routine he
wasn't so I kept putting myself into
smaller and smaller rooms only to
realize I'm never gonna get where I want
to go I meet these two guys who are rich
successful entrepreneurs they tell me
you're coming to the world with your
handout the only way to control your art
is to control the resources to come with
us and get rich so I did it was a very
foolish endeavor for almost ten years I
chased money it was really stupid but I
learned a lot including what I don't
want to do chase money I want to make a
lot of money do not get it twisted boys
and girls I want to get way richer than
I am now but I want to do it in service
of other people I want to do in service
of something that I believe in that's
very very important but that was the
beginning of my entrepreneurial journey
I wanted to make money so I could
control the resources to make films so
now as I begin to realize hey the thing
that really lights me on fire actually
isn't just filmmaking in and of itself
that's still my first loves deep deep
deep passion but the thing that I care
enough about to risk my fortune to pour
myself into everyday is helping people
eliminate limiting mindset so in my
vernacular I want to pull people out of
the matrix so in that process of
thinking I wanted to be an entrepreneur
just to get money only to hit emotional
rock-bottom and realize that being an
entrepreneur is the most powerful way to
make change in the world that's when I
really so it was almost like a decade
into being an entrepreneur that I
realized I truly wanted to be an
entrepreneur because I believe that you
can bring about change how did I go
about losing before winning I didn't
have a choice
ah the only thing I knew how to do was
lose and so I just lost and lost and
lost and the question was how did I
learn to deal with it emotionally and
that was the earlier I was talking about
the breakthrough that I had about what I
built my self-esteem around I finally
switched my pride from being built
around being right being smart being
good being talented and switched it to
no because i'm sometimes those things
and sometimes not so having my
self-esteem built around that seems
really dangerous so I'm gonna built it
around being a learner admitting I'm
wrong like being able to admit that I'm
wrong faster than other people being
willing to be vulnerable
all of those things will become my
source of pride being willing to stare
naked Liat my inadequacies so that I can
address them and get better the mere
willingness to stare at it will become
my source of pride striving for
something rather than accomplishing it
that will become my source of pride okay
so that's how I did all that we were out
of time guys thank you so much for
joining me by the way if you're into
film comic books TV shows all of that
stuff books we're we've started impact
theory studios on YouTube impact Theory
studios on YouTube go right now if
you're into that stuff but only if
you're into that stuff and you want to
see how mindset and media interact where
they intersect where I walk you through
things like why the matrix changed my
life we're putting out content now on a
weekly basis it's gonna be even more so
go to YouTube right now subscribe to
that channel that would be amazing so if
you want to see how you can extract
value for movies TV shows and all that
to justify your Netflix binge watching
if you want to make that one of the most
advantageous things you could possibly
do in fact you could go right now and
watch our this is your brain on stranger
things season 2 go check that out right
now impact Theory studios on YouTube all
right guys thank you so much for joining
me if you haven't already subscribed be
sure to subscribe here and until next
time my friends be legendary
take care
[Music]
[Applause]
you